[MUSIC]
The internet is a wide area network,
the wide area network, and
that's generally the network that we
want to communicate with eventually.
So we're going to talk about the general
structure of a wide-area network.
These pictures are pretty high level,
but they give you the general picture
of what a wide-area network like the
Internet would be, how it's composed, and
what the different
components are inside there.
So a wide-area network, like the Internet,
is a network,
it's a combination of local area networks.
So if you think about the Internet,
it's very ad-hoc.
There's no regularity, meaning like
right now, if I wanted to, I could build
a network right here in this building,
and it would be added to the Internet.
I could give it a name, and
it would be part of the Internet.
And so the Internet isn't one of
these networks that's controlled and
well-structured.
Unlike the local area networks that
you see at your place of work,
or at a school, where you have some I.T.
department, I.T. group, and they
constrain how the thing is put in there.
They say, look,
every time a machine comes in here,
you've got to register it this way.
We only approve of this and that.
And they put the equipment into
the building for you, and all that.
So it's very structured.
But, generally, wide area,
the internet specifically,
is pretty unstructured, right?
There is some minimal structure, there
has to be, but it's fairly unstructured.
So at a low level, at the leaf level,
local area network level, there can be
any number of different local area
network types involved in the internet,
just depending on what
people want locally.
So you start off with local area networks.
You've got our local area network and
you've got several hosts,
Host one, two, three, and
these hosts suggest confrontational
devices that on the network.
So basically computers or IOT devices.
And they are all communicating
with a component.
Now in this picture we have a switch.
It could be hub or a switch.
A hub is a network component
that has several input ports.
We're assuming wired right now.
This can also be all done wirelessly,
but let's talk wired for a minute.
It's got several input ports,
input-output ports, like in this case,
this switch has three ports, right?
So you could have a hub
there that has three.
And any time a packet is sent on
one of the ports it is reflected,
copied to the other ports.
So if host one sends a message to anybody,
that same message is spit
out to codes two and three.
So both of them get the message.
That's what a hub does.
A switch is more intelligent.
A switch says look, it looks at the packet
header to see where it's going.
So if host one sends a message to
the switch and it looks at the destination
message is host three, then the switch
there is smart enough to know
that that message should only be
send to host three not to host two.
So the switch is more intelligent
about where it sends messages to,
where a host is more dumb.
But you got a host or switch somewhere
in there that transmits data
between the different input ports and
output ports.
So generally, LANs look like this.
Now, you can have larger LANs,
which involve multiple protocols.
So you see on the left you've got a LAN,
on the right you've got a LAN,
you can combine them with a bridge.
The bridge can communicate
different LAN protocols.
So maybe you got these LANs and one group,
one department in the University decides
they want to use this particular protocol,
another department uses another
particular protocol, but
they want their machines to communicate so
they put a bridge in between.
And the bridge basically
talks both protocols and
can do conversions between the two.
So you can group together these LANs into
larger LAN components, let's call them.
It's not a single LAN any more,
you can have multiple protocols that
are glued together by this bridge.
Now, a wide area network is a set of these
LAN's all put together with routers.
So if you look at this network, this is by
the way is a vastly simplified internet.
But you got a bunch of LAN's, and
they are all communicating to routers.
And then the routers can communicate
with each other to pass data.
So, one LAN can communicate
with a completely different LAN
through these routers.
So you notice every message is sent
from one machine to another has to,
has many hops, what are called hops.
Has to go through several different
machines before it reaches
Is the destination.
So if you want to go from one LAN to
another, you might leave this LAN and
go to this router, and then go to
another router and another router and
then finally back to the destination
LAN and then to the host.
So there is a sequence of hops,
it is called routes,
actually, of hops that you have to go
through to reach your destination.
And so with these routers,
they are organized.
This is very simple, it's only three,
but and realities a vast hierarchy of
these routers and they have intelligent
protocols that determine where they should
send the packet next to reach its
destination most quickly and avoid flow.
You don't want to have one router
that receives too much data,
maybe all the messages are running through
one router, you'd like to spread out that
data across the entire network, so that
the one router doesn't get bogged down.
So there are lots of protocols
along those lines, and
the internet involves protocols
like that to level out the traffic.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]